---
permalink: /
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

## About Me

**Position:** Research Assistant Professor, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AIML) Lab, Department of Computer Science, The Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) 

**Office:** Department of Computer Science, The Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong SAR 

**Mentor:** Prof. Jiming Liu (IEEE Fellow, Associate Vice-President for Research & Development, Dean of Faculty of Science, Chair Professor in the Department of Computer Science)

Dr. Ziqing Zhu received his Ph.D at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (Supervisor: Dr. Kevin K. W. Chan), in Jan. 2023, and M.Sc at The University of Manchester (Supervisor: Dr. Robin Preece), UK, in Dec. 2019, and B.Eng in Jun. 2018, all in Electrical (Power Systems) Engineering. He served as the postdoctoral research fellow working under the supervision of Dr. Siqi Bu, at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, from Mar. 2023 to Jul. 2023.

With a focus on the design of electricity market mechanisms and multi-agent reinforcement learning-based power market simulations, Dr. Zhu has played a key role in two Hong Kong Research Grants Council (RGC) General Research Fund projects and one Theme-based Research Scheme (TRS) project. He has published 9 high-quality journal articles and 2 conference papers, 6 of which are JCR-Q1 papers in which he is the first/corresponding author.

Dr. Zhu's doctoral thesis, "Application of Reinforcement Learning on Deregulated Active Distribution Networks," received the First Runner-up prize in the Doctoral Dissertation Award at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and was selected as a finalist for the IEEE PES Dissertation Challenge at IEEE PES Grid Edge Technologies Conference, San Diego, CA, 2023. Furthermore, his paper, "A Novel Peer-to-Peer Electricity Market Mechanism with the Participation of Electricity Retailers," was honored with the Best Student Paper award at the IET APSCOM conference, HK, 2022.

After joining HKBU, Dr. Zhu will work closely with Prof. Liu in support of the AIML lab, focusing on the following areas:

Research Interests
------
**Safe Reinforcement Learning (RL) in Future Energy System Dispatch and Control** 

Most of RL algorithm does not 100 % guarantee the fulfillment of constraints. This is unacceptable for dispatch and control tasks, as the violation of constraints is extremely harmful. The emerging Safe RL is a promising solution to tackle this problem. With safe RL, conventional RL algorithms (such as TRPO, PPO, SAC) with outstanding computational performance can be tailored to fulfill the security requirements of dispatching and control tasks. The well-trained smart agent can achieve online and real-time optimal decision-making, with much faster computation speed than mathematical-programming-based optimization methods. As potential applications, this methodology can be deployed to the dispatch and control of microgrid clusters, virtual power plants, multi-energy systems, smart buildings/energy hubs in future smart cities, etc. 

*We are also interested in how to deploy machine learning techniques to accelerate conventional optimization methodologies, as a complementary and more conservative approach in comparison with RL-based methods.*

**Imitation Learning in Future Energy System Dispatch and Control** 

Imitation learning can be considered as the combination of RL and Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). It enables the smart agent to learn from the existing ”expert dataset”, rather than interaction with the environment. Hence, it is perfectly suitable to tasks that 1) cost painfully if it fails, i.e., it is difficult to develop a model for the agent to interact with; and 2) requires fast response speed. Potential applications may include the power system dispatch/control under contingency issues. By using expert dataset generated by human dispatchers with outstanding working experience, the imitation learning can be helpful to achieve fast online dispatch under power system faults, which will be frequently encountered in face of high renewable penetration and extreme weathers. 

**Macro-Level Energy Policies Analysis** 

RL is a bottom-up, agent-based simulation tool, which requires very accurate modeling of the environment. Hence, it is only applicable to small-scale systems, such as local electricity markets. For analysis of Macro energy policies in large systems (for example, in regional-level or cross-national energy markets), detailed modeling of the environment is overwhelmingly complicated. Existing solutions are those ”top-down” models, such as General Equilibrium Models and Econometrics Models. However, top-down models cannot formulate the bottom-level behaviors well. An intuitive idea is to combine Top-down models and RL, with their advantages combined together. This methodology can be used to investigate many interesting topics related to marco-level energy policy analysis.

Vacancies
------
We regularly have several positions for Postdoc Research Fellow, PhD, MPhil, Research Assistant, and Visiting Scholar each year (funded by Hong Kong PhD Fellow Scheme (HKPFS), HKBU Research Studentship or external research grants). 

**Note:** **We particularly welcome candidates with strong practical (i.e., from industry) experience in Optimization and Machine Learning, and it doesn't matter if you do not hold a degree in the field of Electrical Power Systems Engineering.**

*If you are interested in our research and want to join our group, please don’t hesitate to drop me an email with your CV, transcript, and representative publications.*

